Transformer is one of the most
versatile deep learning models.
It is successfully applied to a number
of tasks, both in NLP and beyond.
Let me show you a few examples.
First, I'll mention the most popular
applications of Transformers in NLP.
Then you will learn what are the states
of the art Transformer models,
including the so-called Text-to-Text
Transfer Transformer, T5 in shorthand.
Finally, you'll see how useful and
versatile T5 is.
Since Transformers can be in general
applied to any sequential task,
just like RNNs,
it has been widely used throughout NLP.
One very interesting and
popular application is
automatic text summarization.
They are also used for auto-completion,
named entity recognition,
automatic question answering,
machine translation.
Another application is Chat-bots, and many
other NLP tasks like Sentiment Analysis,
Market Intelligence,
Text Classification, and others.
Many variants of Transformers
are used in NLP.
And as usual, researchers give
their models their very own names.
So for example, GPT-2, which stands for
Generative Pre-training for
Transformer, is a Transformer created
by open AI with pre training.
It is so good at generating text that
the news magazine, The Economist,
had a reporter asked
the GPT-2 model questions,
as if they were interviewing a person.
And they published the interview
at the end of 2019.
BERT, which stands for Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers,
and which was created by
the Google AI Language team,
is another famous transformer used for
learning text representations.
T5, which stands for
Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer, and
was also created by Google.
As a multi task Transformer,
this can do question answering
among the lots of different tasks.
So let's dive a little
deeper into the T5 Model.
A single model can learn to
do multiple different tasks.
This is a pretty significant advancement.
For example, let's say you want to
perform tasks such as translation,
classification, and question answering.
Normally you would design an train
one model to perform translation, and
then design an train a second model
to perform classification, and
then design an train a third model
to perform question answering.
But to Transformers,
you can train a single model that is
able to perform all of these tasks.
For instance, to tell the T5 model that
you wanted to perform a certain task,
you will give the model an input string
of texts that includes both the task that
you wanted to do, as well as the data
that you wanted to perform that task on.
For example, if you want the T5 model to
translate a particular sentence like,
I'm happy, from English to German,
you would give the input string translate
English into German, I'm happy.
And the model would be able to
output the sentence, [FOREIGN],
which is the translation of,
I'm happy into German.
And once again, I apologize for
my German pronunciation.
So as you can see, we started with, I'm
happy, and we got the German equivalent.
So this is an example of classification,
where input sentences are classified
into two classes, acceptable when
they make sense, and unacceptable.
In this example, the input string
starts with Cola sentence,
which the model understands is asking
it to classify the sentence that
follows the command as acceptable or
unacceptable.
In this case, the sentence to classify is,
he bought fruits and period.
For instance, the sentence, he bought
fruits and period, is incomplete.
And then it's classified as unacceptable.
Meanwhile, if we give the T5
model this input, Cola sentence,
he bought fruits and vegetables.
The model classifies, he bought fruits and
vegetables, as an acceptable sentence.
If we give the T5 model the inputs
starting with the word, question followed
by a colon, the model then knows that
this is a question answering example.
In this example, the question is,
which volcano in Tanzania is
the highest mountain in Africa?
And your T5 will ask for the answer to
that question, which is Mount Kilimanjaro.
And remember, that's all of these tasks
are done by the same model with no
modification other than
the input sentences.
How cool is that?
Even more, the T5 also performs tasks
of regression and summarization.
Recall that's a regression model is one
that's outputs a continuous numeric value.
Here you can see an example of regression,
which outputs the similarity
between two sentences.
The start of the input string is Stsb,
which indicates to the model that
it should perform a similarity
measurement between two sentences.
The two sentences are denoted by
the word sentence one and sentence two.
The range of possible outputs for
this model is any numeric value
ranging from zero to five.
Where zero indicates that the sentence
is are not similar at all, and
five indicates that
the sentences are very similar.
Let's consider this example.
When comparing sentence one, cats and
dogs are mammals, with the sentence two,
there are four known forces in nature,
gravity, electromagnetic, weak and strong.
The resulting similarity level is zero,
indicating that the sentences
are not similar.
Now let's consider this another example.
Sentence1, cats and dogs are mammals.
And Sentence2, cats,
dogs and cows are domestic.
In this case,
the similarity level maybe 2.6,
if you use a range between zero and five.
Finally, here you can see
an example of summarization.
It is a long story about all the events
and details on an onslaught of
severe weather in Mississippi,
which is summarized just as,
six people hospitalized after
a storm in Attala County.
This is a demo using T5 for
trivia questions, so
that you can compete
against the Transformer.
What makes this demo interesting,
is that T5 was trained in a closed book
setting without access to
any external knowledge.
So let's take a look at it.
So over here you have, what's country
is the largest oil producer in Africa?
So I said Nigeria.
And we both got it's correct.
What color hair did Charles Dickens'
character David Cooperfield have?
So we both got it wrong.
I said pink, and T5 said brown.
Who wrote the 1961 novel,
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie?
So, I put Murlel Spark.
Well, I use some help there,
but anyways you
can play against the T5 model and
see who wins.
So let's summarize what
we just saw over here.
In this video you saw what
are the Transformers applications in NLP,
which ranged from translation
to summarization.
And then we covered some state of the art
Transformers like GPT-2, BERTS and T5.
And then I showed you how versatile and
powerful T5 is,
as it can perform multiple tasks
using text representations.
Now you know why we need transformer and
where it can be applied.
Isn't it astounding that one model
can handle such a variety of tasks?
I hope you are now eager to
learn how Transformer works, and
that's what I show you next.
Let's go to the next video.